README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🧠 Alzeural

### An Open-Source EdTech Platform *For Learners, By Learners*

[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/your-username/alzeural)](https://github.com/rezverish/alzeural/graphs/contributors)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/your-username/alzeural)](https://github.com/your-username/alzeural/issues)
[![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/your-username/alzeural)](https://github.com/your-username/alzeural/network/members)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/your-username/alzeural)](https://github.com/your-username/alzeural/stargazers)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/your-username/alzeural)](LICENSE)

*Bridging the gap between curiosity and mastery, one contribution at a time.*

</div>

---

## 🌟 About Alzeural

Alzeural is a revolutionary, community-driven educational platform. We believe that the best teachers are often those who have recently walked the path themselves. Our platform is built **by learners who are now open-source contributors**, creating a living, breathing repository of knowledge that evolves with its community.

We host a vast and diverse range of content, from the ancient tales of **mythology** to the cutting-edge frontiers of **AI/ML**, alongside insightful **blogs** and in-depth **research** summaries. Whether you're a beginner looking for clear explanations or an expert sharing your insights, Alzeural is your home.

## 🚀 Vision

To democratize knowledge creation and become the most reliable, community-verified learning resource on the internet, spanning all disciplines.

## 📚 What You'll Find Here

The Alzeural platform is organized into several key content areas:

- **🤖 Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning:** Tutorials, project walkthroughs, paper explanations, and the latest trends in AI.
- **📜 Mythology & History:** Deep dives into myths, legends, and historical events from cultures around the world.
- **✍️ Blogs & Personal Insights:** Thought-provoking articles on technology, learning methodologies, and personal growth.
- **🔬 Research & Papers:** Accessible summaries and explanations of academic research across various fields.
- **💻 Programming & Development:** Coding tutorials, best practices, and software engineering concepts.
- **🎨 Creative Arts:** Content related to design, music, writing, and other creative pursuits.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React.js, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express.js
- **Database:** MongoDB / PostgreSQL
- **Authentication:** Auth0 / JWT
- **Deployment:** Docker, AWS/Vercel
- **Content Management:** Markdown-based with Git versioning

## 🎯 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- Git

### Installation

1. **Fork the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/alzeural.git
   cd alzeural

Commit message:

refactor: Rename Alzeural to Zeural

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🧠 Zeural

### An Open-Source EdTech Platform *For Learners, By Learners*

[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/your-username/zeural)](https://github.com/rezverish/zeural/graphs/contributors)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/your-username/zeural)](https://github.com/your-username/zeural/issues)
[![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/your-username/zeural)](https://github.com/your-username/zeural/network/members)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/your-username/zeural)](https://github.com/your-username/zeural/stargazers)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/your-username/zeural)](LICENSE)

*Bridging the gap between curiosity and mastery, one contribution at a time.*

</div>

---

## 🌟 About Zeural

Zeural is a revolutionary, community-driven educational platform. We believe that the best teachers are often those who have recently walked the path themselves. Our platform is built **by learners who are now open-source contributors**, creating a living, breathing repository of knowledge that evolves with its community.

We host a vast and diverse range of content, from the ancient tales of **mythology** to the cutting-edge frontiers of **AI/ML**, alongside insightful **blogs** and in-depth **research** summaries. Whether you're a beginner looking for clear explanations or an expert sharing your insights, Zeural is your home.

## 🚀 Vision

To democratize knowledge creation and become the most reliable, community-verified learning resource on the internet, spanning all disciplines.

## 📚 What You'll Find Here

The Zeural platform is organized into several key content areas:

- **🤖 Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning:** Tutorials, project walkthroughs, paper explanations, and the latest trends in AI.
- **📜 Mythology & History:** Deep dives into myths, legends, and historical events from cultures around the world.
- **✍️ Blogs & Personal Insights:** Thought-provoking articles on technology, learning methodologies, and personal growth.
- **🔬 Research & Papers:** Accessible summaries and explanations of academic research across various fields.
- **💻 Programming & Development:** Coding tutorials, best practices, and software engineering concepts.
- **🎨 Creative Arts:** Content related to design, music, writing, and other creative pursuits.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend:** React.js, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express.js
- **Database:** MongoDB / PostgreSQL
- **Authentication:** Auth0 / JWT
- **Deployment:** Docker, AWS/Vercel
- **Content Management:** Markdown-based with Git versioning

## 🎯 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- Git

### Installation

1. **Fork the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/zeural.git
   cd zeural
