_research/2511.11480v1.md, before:

---
abstract: Many properties of perceptual decision making are well-modeled by deep neural
  networks. However, such architectures typically treat decisions as instantaneous
  readouts, overlooking the temporal dynamics of the decision process. We present
  an image-computable model of perceptual decision making in which choices and response
  times arise from efficient sensory encoding and Bayesian decoding of neural spiking
  activity. We use a Poisson variational autoencoder to learn unsupervised representations
  of visual stimuli in a population of rate-coded neurons, modeled as independent
  homogeneous Poisson processes. A task-optimized decoder then continually infers
  an approximate posterior over actions conditioned on incoming spiking activity.
  Combining these components with an entropy-based stopping rule yields a principled
  and image-computable model of perceptual decisions capable of generating trial-by-trial
  patterns of choices and response times. Applied to MNIST digit classification, the
  model reproduces key empirical signatures of perceptual decision making, including
  stochastic variability, right-skewed response time distributions, logarithmic scaling
  of response times with the number of alternatives (Hick's law), and speed-accuracy
  trade-offs.
authors:
- Hayden R. Johnson
- Anastasia N. Krouglova
- Hadi Vafaii
- Jacob L. Yates
- "Pedro J. Gon\xE7alves"
layout: paper
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11480v1
title: Inferring response times of perceptual decisions with Poisson variational autoencoders
year: 2025
---

Commit message:

Fix research page rendering and add layout

_research/2511.11480v1.md, after:

---
abstract: Many properties of perceptual decision making are well-modeled by deep neural
  networks. However, such architectures typically treat decisions as instantaneous
  readouts, overlooking the temporal dynamics of the decision process. We present
  an image-computable model of perceptual decision making in which choices and response
  times arise from efficient sensory encoding and Bayesian decoding of neural spiking
  activity. We use a Poisson variational autoencoder to learn unsupervised representations
  of visual stimuli in a population of rate-coded neurons, modeled as independent
  homogeneous Poisson processes. A task-optimized decoder then continually infers
  an approximate posterior over actions conditioned on incoming spiking activity.
  Combining these components with an entropy-based stopping rule yields a principled
  and image-computable model of perceptual decisions capable of generating trial-by-trial
  patterns of choices and response times. Applied to MNIST digit classification, the
  model reproduces key empirical signatures of perceptual decision making, including
  stochastic variability, right-skewed response time distributions, logarithmic scaling
  of response times with the number of alternatives (Hick's law), and speed-accuracy
  trade-offs.
authors:
- Hayden R. Johnson
- Anastasia N. Krouglova
- Hadi Vafaii
- Jacob L. Yates
- "Pedro J. Gon\xE7alves"
layout: research_post
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11480v1
title: Inferring response times of perceptual decisions with Poisson variational autoencoders
year: 2025
---
Many properties of perceptual decision making are well-modeled by deep neural networks. However, such architectures typically treat decisions as instantaneous readouts, overlooking the temporal dynamics of the decision process. We present an image-computable model of perceptual decision making in which choices and response times arise from efficient sensory encoding and Bayesian decoding of neural spiking activity. We use a Poisson variational autoencoder to learn unsupervised representations of visual stimuli in a population of rate-coded neurons, modeled as independent homogeneous Poisson processes. A task-optimized decoder then continually infers an approximate posterior over actions conditioned on incoming spiking activity. Combining these components with an entropy-based stopping rule yields a principled and image-computable model of perceptual decisions capable of generating trial-by-trial patterns of choices and response times. Applied to MNIST digit classification, the model reproduces key empirical signatures of perceptual decision making, including stochastic variability, right-skewed response time distributions, logarithmic scaling of response times with the number of alternatives (Hick's law), and speed-accuracy trade-offs.
