_research/2511.11533v1.md, before:

---
abstract: Ergodic control synthesizes optimal coverage behaviors over spatial distributions
  for nonlinear systems. However, existing formulations model the robot as a non-volumetric
  point, but in practice a robot interacts with the environment through its body and
  sensors with physical volume. In this work, we introduce a new ergodic control formulation
  that optimizes spatial coverage using a volumetric state representation. Our method
  preserves the asymptotic coverage guarantees of ergodic control, adds minimal computational
  overhead for real-time control, and supports arbitrary sample-based volumetric models.
  We evaluate our method across search and manipulation tasks -- with multiple robot
  dynamics and end-effector geometries or sensor models -- and show that it improves
  coverage efficiency by more than a factor of two while maintaining a 100% task completion
  rate across all experiments, outperforming the standard ergodic control method.
  Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a robot arm performing
  mechanical erasing tasks.
authors:
- Jueun Kwon
- Max M. Sun
- Todd Murphey
layout: paper
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11533v1
title: Volumetric Ergodic Control
year: 2025
---

Commit message:

Fix research page rendering and add layout

_research/2511.11533v1.md, after:

---
abstract: Ergodic control synthesizes optimal coverage behaviors over spatial distributions
  for nonlinear systems. However, existing formulations model the robot as a non-volumetric
  point, but in practice a robot interacts with the environment through its body and
  sensors with physical volume. In this work, we introduce a new ergodic control formulation
  that optimizes spatial coverage using a volumetric state representation. Our method
  preserves the asymptotic coverage guarantees of ergodic control, adds minimal computational
  overhead for real-time control, and supports arbitrary sample-based volumetric models.
  We evaluate our method across search and manipulation tasks -- with multiple robot
  dynamics and end-effector geometries or sensor models -- and show that it improves
  coverage efficiency by more than a factor of two while maintaining a 100% task completion
  rate across all experiments, outperforming the standard ergodic control method.
  Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a robot arm performing
  mechanical erasing tasks.
authors:
- Jueun Kwon
- Max M. Sun
- Todd Murphey
layout: research_post
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11533v1
title: Volumetric Ergodic Control
year: 2025
---
Ergodic control synthesizes optimal coverage behaviors over spatial distributions for nonlinear systems. However, existing formulations model the robot as a non-volumetric point, but in practice a robot interacts with the environment through its body and sensors with physical volume. In this work, we introduce a new ergodic control formulation that optimizes spatial coverage using a volumetric state representation. Our method preserves the asymptotic coverage guarantees of ergodic control, adds minimal computational overhead for real-time control, and supports arbitrary sample-based volumetric models. We evaluate our method across search and manipulation tasks -- with multiple robot dynamics and end-effector geometries or sensor models -- and show that it improves coverage efficiency by more than a factor of two while maintaining a 100% task completion rate across all experiments, outperforming the standard ergodic control method. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a robot arm performing mechanical erasing tasks.
