_research/2511.11560v1.md, before:

---
abstract: 'In semi-decentralized federated learning, devices primarily rely on device-to-device
  communication but occasionally interact with a central server. Periodically, a sampled
  subset of devices uploads their local models to the server, which computes an aggregate
  model. The server can then either (i) share this aggregate model only with the sampled
  clients (sampled-to-sampled, S2S) or (ii) broadcast it to all clients (sampled-to-all,
  S2A). Despite their practical significance, a rigorous theoretical and empirical
  comparison of these two strategies remains absent. We address this gap by analyzing
  S2S and S2A within a unified convergence framework that accounts for key system
  parameters: sampling rate, server aggregation frequency, and network connectivity.
  Our results, both analytical and experimental, reveal distinct regimes where one
  strategy outperforms the other, depending primarily on the degree of data heterogeneity
  across devices. These insights lead to concrete design guidelines for practical
  semi-decentralized FL deployments.'
authors:
- Angelo Rodio
- Giovanni Neglia
- Zheng Chen
- Erik G. Larsson
layout: paper
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11560v1
title: 'A Unified Convergence Analysis for Semi-Decentralized Learning: Sampled-to-Sampled
  vs. Sampled-to-All Communication'
year: 2025
---

Commit message:

Fix research page rendering and add layout

_research/2511.11560v1.md, after:

---
abstract: 'In semi-decentralized federated learning, devices primarily rely on device-to-device
  communication but occasionally interact with a central server. Periodically, a sampled
  subset of devices uploads their local models to the server, which computes an aggregate
  model. The server can then either (i) share this aggregate model only with the sampled
  clients (sampled-to-sampled, S2S) or (ii) broadcast it to all clients (sampled-to-all,
  S2A). Despite their practical significance, a rigorous theoretical and empirical
  comparison of these two strategies remains absent. We address this gap by analyzing
  S2S and S2A within a unified convergence framework that accounts for key system
  parameters: sampling rate, server aggregation frequency, and network connectivity.
  Our results, both analytical and experimental, reveal distinct regimes where one
  strategy outperforms the other, depending primarily on the degree of data heterogeneity
  across devices. These insights lead to concrete design guidelines for practical
  semi-decentralized FL deployments.'
authors:
- Angelo Rodio
- Giovanni Neglia
- Zheng Chen
- Erik G. Larsson
layout: research_post
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11560v1
title: 'A Unified Convergence Analysis for Semi-Decentralized Learning: Sampled-to-Sampled
  vs. Sampled-to-All Communication'
year: 2025
---
In semi-decentralized federated learning, devices primarily rely on device-to-device communication but occasionally interact with a central server. Periodically, a sampled subset of devices uploads their local models to the server, which computes an aggregate model. The server can then either (i) share this aggregate model only with the sampled clients (sampled-to-sampled, S2S) or (ii) broadcast it to all clients (sampled-to-all, S2A). Despite their practical significance, a rigorous theoretical and empirical comparison of these two strategies remains absent. We address this gap by analyzing S2S and S2A within a unified convergence framework that accounts for key system parameters: sampling rate, server aggregation frequency, and network connectivity. Our results, both analytical and experimental, reveal distinct regimes where one strategy outperforms the other, depending primarily on the degree of data heterogeneity across devices. These insights lead to concrete design guidelines for practical semi-decentralized FL deployments.
