_research/2511.11558v1.md, before:

---
abstract: Autonomous laboratories typically rely on data-driven decision-making, occasionally
  with human-in-the-loop oversight to inject domain expertise. Fully leveraging AI
  agents, however, requires tightly coupled, collaborative workflows spanning hypothesis
  generation, experimental planning, execution, and interpretation. To address this,
  we develop and deploy a human-AI collaborative (HAIC) workflow that integrates large
  language models for hypothesis generation and analysis, with collaborative policy
  updates driving autonomous pulsed laser deposition (PLD) experiments for remote
  epitaxy of BaTiO$_3$/graphene. HAIC accelerated the hypothesis formation and experimental
  design and efficiently mapped the growth space to graphene-damage. In situ Raman
  spectroscopy reveals that chemistry drives degradation while the highest energy
  plume components seed defects, identifying a low-O$_2$ pressure low-temperature
  synthesis window that preserves graphene but is incompatible with optimal BaTiO$_3$
  growth. Thus, we show a two-step Ar/O$_2$ deposition is required to exfoliate ferroelectric
  BaTiO$_3$ while maintaining a monolayer graphene interlayer. HAIC stages human insight
  with AI reasoning between autonomous batches to drive rapid scientific progress,
  providing an evolution to many existing human-in-the-loop autonomous workflows.
authors:
- Asraful Haque
- Daniel T. Yimam
- Jawad Chowdhury
- Ralph Bulanadi
- Ivan Vlassiouk
- John Lasseter
- Sujoy Ghosh
- Christopher M. Rouleau
- Kai Xiao
- Yongtao Liu
- Eva Zarkadoula
- Rama K. Vasudevan
- Sumner B. Harris
layout: paper
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11558v1
title: Human-AI collaborative autonomous synthesis with pulsed laser deposition for
  remote epitaxy
year: 2025
---

Commit message:

Fix research page rendering and add layout

_research/2511.11558v1.md, after:

---
abstract: Autonomous laboratories typically rely on data-driven decision-making, occasionally
  with human-in-the-loop oversight to inject domain expertise. Fully leveraging AI
  agents, however, requires tightly coupled, collaborative workflows spanning hypothesis
  generation, experimental planning, execution, and interpretation. To address this,
  we develop and deploy a human-AI collaborative (HAIC) workflow that integrates large
  language models for hypothesis generation and analysis, with collaborative policy
  updates driving autonomous pulsed laser deposition (PLD) experiments for remote
  epitaxy of BaTiO$_3$/graphene. HAIC accelerated the hypothesis formation and experimental
  design and efficiently mapped the growth space to graphene-damage. In situ Raman
  spectroscopy reveals that chemistry drives degradation while the highest energy
  plume components seed defects, identifying a low-O$_2$ pressure low-temperature
  synthesis window that preserves graphene but is incompatible with optimal BaTiO$_3$
  growth. Thus, we show a two-step Ar/O$_2$ deposition is required to exfoliate ferroelectric
  BaTiO$_3$ while maintaining a monolayer graphene interlayer. HAIC stages human insight
  with AI reasoning between autonomous batches to drive rapid scientific progress,
  providing an evolution to many existing human-in-the-loop autonomous workflows.
authors:
- Asraful Haque
- Daniel T. Yimam
- Jawad Chowdhury
- Ralph Bulanadi
- Ivan Vlassiouk
- John Lasseter
- Sujoy Ghosh
- Christopher M. Rouleau
- Kai Xiao
- Yongtao Liu
- Eva Zarkadoula
- Rama K. Vasudevan
- Sumner B. Harris
layout: research_post
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11558v1
title: Human-AI collaborative autonomous synthesis with pulsed laser deposition for
  remote epitaxy
year: 2025
---
Autonomous laboratories typically rely on data-driven decision-making, occasionally with human-in-the-loop oversight to inject domain expertise. Fully leveraging AI agents, however, requires tightly coupled, collaborative workflows spanning hypothesis generation, experimental planning, execution, and interpretation. To address this, we develop and deploy a human-AI collaborative (HAIC) workflow that integrates large language models for hypothesis generation and analysis, with collaborative policy updates driving autonomous pulsed laser deposition (PLD) experiments for remote epitaxy of BaTiO$_3$/graphene. HAIC accelerated the hypothesis formation and experimental design and efficiently mapped the growth space to graphene-damage. In situ Raman spectroscopy reveals that chemistry drives degradation while the highest energy plume components seed defects, identifying a low-O$_2$ pressure low-temperature synthesis window that preserves graphene but is incompatible with optimal BaTiO$_3$ growth. Thus, we show a two-step Ar/O$_2$ deposition is required to exfoliate ferroelectric BaTiO$_3$ while maintaining a monolayer graphene interlayer. HAIC stages human insight with AI reasoning between autonomous batches to drive rapid scientific progress, providing an evolution to many existing human-in-the-loop autonomous workflows.
