_research/2511.11519v1.md, before:

---
abstract: 'Enabling agentic AI systems to adapt their problem-solving approaches based
  on post-training interactions remains a fundamental challenge. While systems that
  update and maintain a memory at inference time have been proposed, existing designs
  only steer the system by modifying textual input to a language model or agent, which
  means that they cannot change sampling parameters, remove tools, modify system prompts,
  or switch between agentic and workflow paradigms. On the other hand, systems that
  adapt more flexibly require offline optimization and remain static once deployed.
  We present Experience-Guided Reasoner (EGuR), which generates tailored strategies
  -- complete computational procedures involving LLM calls, tools, sampling parameters,
  and control logic -- dynamically at inference time based on accumulated experience.
  We achieve this using an LLM-based meta-strategy -- a strategy that outputs strategies
  -- enabling adaptation of all strategy components (prompts, sampling parameters,
  tool configurations, and control logic). EGuR operates through two components: a
  Guide generates multiple candidate strategies conditioned on the current problem
  and structured memory of past experiences, while a Consolidator integrates execution
  feedback to improve future strategy generation. This produces complete, ready-to-run
  strategies optimized for each problem, which can be cached, retrieved, and executed
  as needed without wasting resources. Across five challenging benchmarks (AIME 2025,
  3-SAT, and three Big Bench Extra Hard tasks), EGuR achieves up to 14% accuracy improvements
  over the strongest baselines while reducing computational costs by up to 111x, with
  both metrics improving as the system gains experience.'
authors:
- Adam Stein
- Matthew Trager
- Benjamin Bowman
- Michael Kleinman
- Aditya Chattopadhyay
- Wei Xia
- Stefano Soatto
layout: paper
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11519v1
title: Experience-Guided Adaptation of Inference-Time Reasoning Strategies
year: 2025
---

Commit message:

Fix research page rendering and add layout

_research/2511.11519v1.md, after:

---
abstract: 'Enabling agentic AI systems to adapt their problem-solving approaches based
  on post-training interactions remains a fundamental challenge. While systems that
  update and maintain a memory at inference time have been proposed, existing designs
  only steer the system by modifying textual input to a language model or agent, which
  means that they cannot change sampling parameters, remove tools, modify system prompts,
  or switch between agentic and workflow paradigms. On the other hand, systems that
  adapt more flexibly require offline optimization and remain static once deployed.
  We present Experience-Guided Reasoner (EGuR), which generates tailored strategies
  -- complete computational procedures involving LLM calls, tools, sampling parameters,
  and control logic -- dynamically at inference time based on accumulated experience.
  We achieve this using an LLM-based meta-strategy -- a strategy that outputs strategies
  -- enabling adaptation of all strategy components (prompts, sampling parameters,
  tool configurations, and control logic). EGuR operates through two components: a
  Guide generates multiple candidate strategies conditioned on the current problem
  and structured memory of past experiences, while a Consolidator integrates execution
  feedback to improve future strategy generation. This produces complete, ready-to-run
  strategies optimized for each problem, which can be cached, retrieved, and executed
  as needed without wasting resources. Across five challenging benchmarks (AIME 2025,
  3-SAT, and three Big Bench Extra Hard tasks), EGuR achieves up to 14% accuracy improvements
  over the strongest baselines while reducing computational costs by up to 111x, with
  both metrics improving as the system gains experience.'
authors:
- Adam Stein
- Matthew Trager
- Benjamin Bowman
- Michael Kleinman
- Aditya Chattopadhyay
- Wei Xia
- Stefano Soatto
layout: research_post
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11519v1
title: Experience-Guided Adaptation of Inference-Time Reasoning Strategies
year: 2025
---
Enabling agentic AI systems to adapt their problem-solving approaches based on post-training interactions remains a fundamental challenge. While systems that update and maintain a memory at inference time have been proposed, existing designs only steer the system by modifying textual input to a language model or agent, which means that they cannot change sampling parameters, remove tools, modify system prompts, or switch between agentic and workflow paradigms. On the other hand, systems that adapt more flexibly require offline optimization and remain static once deployed. We present Experience-Guided Reasoner (EGuR), which generates tailored strategies -- complete computational procedures involving LLM calls, tools, sampling parameters, and control logic -- dynamically at inference time based on accumulated experience. We achieve this using an LLM-based meta-strategy -- a strategy that outputs strategies -- enabling adaptation of all strategy components (prompts, sampling parameters, tool configurations, and control logic). EGuR operates through two components: a Guide generates multiple candidate strategies conditioned on the current problem and structured memory of past experiences, while a Consolidator integrates execution feedback to improve future strategy generation. This produces complete, ready-to-run strategies optimized for each problem, which can be cached, retrieved, and executed as needed without wasting resources. Across five challenging benchmarks (AIME 2025, 3-SAT, and three Big Bench Extra Hard tasks), EGuR achieves up to 14% accuracy improvements over the strongest baselines while reducing computational costs by up to 111x, with both metrics improving as the system gains experience.
