_research/2511.11569v1.md, before:

---
abstract: "We present \\textsf{ModularSubsetSelection} (MSS), a new algorithm for\
  \ locally differentially private (LDP) frequency estimation. Given a universe of\
  \ size $k$ and $n$ users, our $\\varepsilon$-LDP mechanism encodes each input via\
  \ a Residue Number System (RNS) over $\\ell$ pairwise-coprime moduli $m_0, \\ldots,\
  \ m_{\\ell-1}$, and reports a randomly chosen index $j \\in [\\ell]$ along with\
  \ the perturbed residue using the statistically optimal \\textsf{SubsetSelection}~(SS)\
  \ (Wang et al. 2016). This design reduces the user communication cost from $\u0398\
  \\bigl(\u03C9\\log_2(k/\u03C9)\\bigr)$ bits required by standard SS (with $\u03C9\
  \\approx k/(e^\\varepsilon+1)$) down to $\\lceil \\log_2 \\ell \\rceil + \\lceil\
  \ \\log_2 m_j \\rceil$ bits, where $m_j < k$. Server-side decoding runs in $\u0398\
  (n + r k \\ell)$ time, where $r$ is the number of LSMR (Fong and Saunders 2011)\
  \ iterations. In practice, with well-conditioned moduli (\\textit{i.e.}, constant\
  \ $r$ and $\\ell = \u0398(\\log k)$), this becomes $\u0398(n + k \\log k)$. We prove\
  \ that MSS achieves worst-case MSE within a constant factor of state-of-the-art\
  \ protocols such as SS and \\textsf{ProjectiveGeometryResponse} (PGR) (Feldman et\
  \ al. 2022), while avoiding the algebraic prerequisites and dynamic-programming\
  \ decoder required by PGR. Empirically, MSS matches the estimation accuracy of SS,\
  \ PGR, and \\textsf{RAPPOR} (Erlingsson, Pihur, and Korolova 2014) across realistic\
  \ $(k, \\varepsilon)$ settings, while offering faster decoding than PGR and shorter\
  \ user messages than SS. Lastly, by sampling from multiple moduli and reporting\
  \ only a single perturbed residue, MSS achieves the lowest reconstruction-attack\
  \ success rate among all evaluated LDP protocols."
authors:
- "H\xE9ber H. Arcolezi"
layout: paper
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11569v1
title: Private Frequency Estimation Via Residue Number Systems
year: 2025
---

Commit message:

Fix research page rendering and add layout

_research/2511.11569v1.md, after:

---
abstract: "We present \\textsf{ModularSubsetSelection} (MSS), a new algorithm for\
  \ locally differentially private (LDP) frequency estimation. Given a universe of\
  \ size $k$ and $n$ users, our $\\varepsilon$-LDP mechanism encodes each input via\
  \ a Residue Number System (RNS) over $\\ell$ pairwise-coprime moduli $m_0, \\ldots,\
  \ m_{\\ell-1}$, and reports a randomly chosen index $j \\in [\\ell]$ along with\
  \ the perturbed residue using the statistically optimal \\textsf{SubsetSelection}~(SS)\
  \ (Wang et al. 2016). This design reduces the user communication cost from $\u0398\
  \\bigl(\u03C9\\log_2(k/\u03C9)\\bigr)$ bits required by standard SS (with $\u03C9\
  \\approx k/(e^\\varepsilon+1)$) down to $\\lceil \\log_2 \\ell \\rceil + \\lceil\
  \ \\log_2 m_j \\rceil$ bits, where $m_j < k$. Server-side decoding runs in $\u0398\
  (n + r k \\ell)$ time, where $r$ is the number of LSMR (Fong and Saunders 2011)\
  \ iterations. In practice, with well-conditioned moduli (\\textit{i.e.}, constant\
  \ $r$ and $\\ell = \u0398(\\log k)$), this becomes $\u0398(n + k \\log k)$. We prove\
  \ that MSS achieves worst-case MSE within a constant factor of state-of-the-art\
  \ protocols such as SS and \\textsf{ProjectiveGeometryResponse} (PGR) (Feldman et\
  \ al. 2022), while avoiding the algebraic prerequisites and dynamic-programming\
  \ decoder required by PGR. Empirically, MSS matches the estimation accuracy of SS,\
  \ PGR, and \\textsf{RAPPOR} (Erlingsson, Pihur, and Korolova 2014) across realistic\
  \ $(k, \\varepsilon)$ settings, while offering faster decoding than PGR and shorter\
  \ user messages than SS. Lastly, by sampling from multiple moduli and reporting\
  \ only a single perturbed residue, MSS achieves the lowest reconstruction-attack\
  \ success rate among all evaluated LDP protocols."
authors:
- "H\xE9ber H. Arcolezi"
layout: research_post
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2511.11569v1
title: Private Frequency Estimation Via Residue Number Systems
year: 2025
---
We present \textsf{ModularSubsetSelection} (MSS), a new algorithm for locally differentially private (LDP) frequency estimation. Given a universe of size $k$ and $n$ users, our $\varepsilon$-LDP mechanism encodes each input via a Residue Number System (RNS) over $\ell$ pairwise-coprime moduli $m_0, \ldots, m_{\ell-1}$, and reports a randomly chosen index $j \in [\ell]$ along with the perturbed residue using the statistically optimal \textsf{SubsetSelection}~(SS) (Wang et al. 2016). This design reduces the user communication cost from $Θ\bigl(ω\log_2(k/ω)\bigr)$ bits required by standard SS (with $ω\approx k/(e^\varepsilon+1)$) down to $\lceil \log_2 \ell \rceil + \lceil \log_2 m_j \rceil$ bits, where $m_j < k$. Server-side decoding runs in $Θ(n + r k \ell)$ time, where $r$ is the number of LSMR (Fong and Saunders 2011) iterations. In practice, with well-conditioned moduli (\textit{i.e.}, constant $r$ and $\ell = Θ(\log k)$), this becomes $Θ(n + k \log k)$. We prove that MSS achieves worst-case MSE within a constant factor of state-of-the-art protocols such as SS and \textsf{ProjectiveGeometryResponse} (PGR) (Feldman et al. 2022), while avoiding the algebraic prerequisites and dynamic-programming decoder required by PGR. Empirically, MSS matches the estimation accuracy of SS, PGR, and \textsf{RAPPOR} (Erlingsson, Pihur, and Korolova 2014) across realistic $(k, \varepsilon)$ settings, while offering faster decoding than PGR and shorter user messages than SS. Lastly, by sampling from multiple moduli and reporting only a single perturbed residue, MSS achieves the lowest reconstruction-attack success rate among all evaluated LDP protocols.
